New article "Minimize an extension's impact on page load time" (#3272)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/developer-guide/minimize-page-load-time-impact.md

Reviewer: i might add entry in new landing page which currently lists all articles
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/landing/

source file
\edge-developer\microsoft-edge\devtools-guide-chromium\landing\index.yml

Reviewer: added to landing

To profile the performance of your extension's content script, use Microsoft Edge DevTools or the Edge tracing tool, as described in the following sections.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Profile your content script using Microsoft Edge DevTools

DevTools provides a set of features for inspecting, debugging, and profiling the code that a webpage uses. DevTools can also be used to profile your extension's code.

In this section, you'll learn how to use the **Performance** tool in DevTools to profile your extension's content script. To learn more about the **Performance** tool, see [Introduction to the Performance tool](../../devtools-guide-chromium/evaluate-performance/index.md).

1. To open DevTools, right-click the webpage, and then select **Inspect**.  Or, press **Ctrl+Shift+I** (Windows, Linux) or **Command+Option+I** (macOS).  DevTools opens.

1. In DevTools, on the **Activity Bar**, select the **Performance** (![Performance tool icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/performance-tool-icon.png)) tab.  If that tab isn't visible, select **More tools** (![More tools icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/more-tools-icon.png)) > **Performance**.

> 1. To start recording a performance profile, click **Record** (![Record icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/record-icon.png)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To start recording a performance profile, click the **Record** (![Record icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/record-icon.png)) button.
```
corp style: "don't mention the UI control type, unless it clarifies", & "don't assume the user can see pngs"
response: it always clarifies.  paint mental picture of UI via words

I plan to push commits for writer/editor pass

1. Reload the page to capture the profiling data that corresponds to the page load time and then, once the page has finished loading, click **Stop** (![Stop icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/stop-icon.png)) to end the recording. DevTools displays the recorded performance profile.

   ![The recorded performance profile displayed in the DevTools Performance tool](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/profile.png)

1. To search for the performance events that are caused by your content script, press **Ctrl+F** on Windows/Linux or **Command+F** on macOS.  The **Find** text box appears at the bottom of the **Performance** tool.

> 1. Type **Evaluate script** and then press **Enter** until the **Performance** tool highlights the performance events that are caused by your content script.  You will know that you have found the right performance event when the **Script**  label in the **Summary** panel shows the name of your content script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Type **Evaluate script** and then press **Enter** until the **Performance** tool highlights the performance events that are caused by your content script.  You will know that you have found the right performance event when the **Script** label in the **Summary** panel shows the name of your content script.
```

   ![The Evaluate script performance event due to the extension's content script running during the page load](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/evaluate-script-event.png)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Profile your content script using the Edge tracing tool

> The Edge tracing tool, available at the `edge://tracing` URL, is a powerful tool that can provide detailed analysis of your extension's performance. In this section, you'll learn how to use the Edge tracing tool to understand the impact of your extension on the page load time. To learn more about the Edge tracing tool, which is based on the **Perfetto** tool, see [Perfetto UI](https://perfetto.dev/docs/visualization/perfetto-ui).

Reviewer: w/o seeing rendered, ambig whether:
* the tool to trace edges
* Microsoft Edge tool for tracing

> The Edge tracing tool, available at the `edge://tracing` URL, is a powerful tool that can provide detailed analysis of your extension's performance. In this section, you'll learn how to use the Edge tracing tool to understand the impact of your extension on the page load time. To learn more about the Edge tracing tool, which is based on the **Perfetto** tool, see [Perfetto UI](https://perfetto.dev/docs/visualization/perfetto-ui).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Edge tracing tool, available at the `edge://tracing` URL, is a powerful tool that can provide detailed analysis of your extension's performance. In this section, you'll learn how to use the Edge tracing tool to understand the impact of your extension on the page load time. To learn more about the Edge tracing tool, which is based on the **Perfetto** tool, see [Perfetto UI - Perfetto Tracing Docs](https://perfetto.dev/docs/visualization/perfetto-ui).
```
per tab string / paste-string

1. To open the Edge tracing tool, open a new tab or window, and go to `edge://tracing`. The tracing UI opens.

1. To start a new trace, in the top left corner of the tool, click **Record**. The **Record a new trace** dialog box appears.

1. In the **Record a new trace** dialog box, select the **Manually select settings** option. The list of categories appears.

> 1. To capture detailed information about your extension's content script compilation and execution, select the following categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To capture detailed information about your extension's content script compilation and execution, select all of the following categories:
```
remove any ambigy

   * **extensions**
   * **v8**
   * **devtools**
   * **devtools.timeline**

1. Click **Record**. The Edge tracing tool starts recording the trace.

1. Open a new tab and load a webpage that your extension affects. The tracing tool collects data about the performance impact of your extension on the webpage.

> 1. Open the tab where the Edge tracing tool is running, and then click **Stop**. The new trace information appears in the tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the tab where the Edge tracing tool is running, and then click the **Stop** (![icon png]) button. The new trace information appears in the tool.
```
if approp, add icon png

Reviewer: found existing icon png & tagging:
click the **Stop** (![Stop icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/stop-icon.png)) button 
will edit the above comment to add that in Suggestion tagging

Reviewer: no, it's a rect button not icon button

> Traces recorded by the Edge tracing tool provide a lot of information about the browser. To filter the information to only what's relevant to the webpage that your extension impacted, use the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traces that are recorded by the Edge tracing tool provide a lot of information about the browser. To filter the information to only what's relevant to the webpage that your extension impacted, use the following steps:
```
per corp style guide recomm

1. Press **Shift+Esc** to open the **Browser Task Manager** dialog box.

> 1. In the **Browser Task Manager** dialog box, search for the tab that corresponds to the webpage that your extension affected, and note the number in the **Process ID** column. Close the dialog box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Browser Task Manager** dialog box, search for the tab that corresponds to the webpage that your extension affected, and note the number in the **Process ID** column. Close the dialog.
```
according to corp style, just "dialog"
🤷‍♂️🧂

1. In the toolbar of the Edge tracing tool, click **Processes**, and then select the checkbox that corresponds to the process ID you noted. Clear all other checkboxes.

> 1. In the top right corner of the Edge tracing tool, click the search field, type **ScriptInjection::InjectJS**, and then press **Enter** until an event that corresponds to your extension gets highlighted in the bottom panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the top right corner of the Edge tracing tool, click the **Search** field, type **ScriptInjection::InjectJS**, and then press **Enter** until an event that corresponds to your extension gets highlighted in the bottom panel.
```
check whether theres a UI control label or dimmed text in text box

rendered:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/developer-guide/minimize-page-load-time-impact?branch=pr-en-us-3272

Reviewer: no label or tooltip

>    The bottom panel displays the start time and total duration of the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The bottom panel displays the start time and total duration of the event:
```

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/developer-guide/minimize-page-load-time-impact?branch=pr-en-us-3272

>    ![The Edge tracing tool showing a scrip injection event](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/tracing-event-selected.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![The Edge tracing tool showing a script injection event](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/tracing-event-selected.png)
```
typo scrip in alt text

To continue analyzing the performance impact of your extension's content script on the webpage, look for the following key events inside the **ScriptInjection::InjectJS** event:

* **v8.compile**: this event shows the compilation time of your content script.
* **v8.run**: this event indicates the running time of the compiled script.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Only add content script code that's needed for the functionality of your extension

Your extension's content script runs in the context of the webpage. To minimize the impact of your content script on that webpage, make sure to only add, in your content script, the minimum amount of code that your extension needs to run in the context of the webpage. Audit the code in your content script and remove legacy frameworks, tools, libraries, or other code that aren't needed by your content script to run in Microsoft Edge.

You can make use of lazy loading and code splitting techniques to minimize the amount of code that runs in your content script:

> * Lazy loading is the process of loading is the process of loading your code only when it's needed, based on the user actions, the page content, or the extension logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Lazy loading_ is the process of loading is the process of loading your code only when it's needed, based on the user actions, the page content, or the extension logic.
```
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/developer-guide/minimize-page-load-time-impact?branch=pr-en-us-3272

> * Code splitting is the process of dividing your code into smaller chunks, or modules, which can be loaded separately or on demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Code splitting_ is the process of dividing your code into smaller chunks, or modules, which can be loaded separately or on demand.
```
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/developer-guide/minimize-page-load-time-impact?branch=pr-en-us-3272

> If your extension is small enough, you won't need a build tool to split your code. If your extension is larger, and if your code is more complex to manage, use a build to split your code into smaller chunks. Build tools can help you organize your code into logical units, which can be loaded on demand. For example, you can use webpack to split your code into _entry points_ and _dynamic imports_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your extension is small enough, you won't need a build tool to split your code. If your extension is larger, and if your code is more complex to manage, use a build tool to split your code into smaller chunks. Build tools can help you organize your code into logical units, which can be loaded on demand. For example, you can use webpack to split your code into _entry points_ and _dynamic imports_:
```
"use a build" - ??  means use a build _tool_?  @captainbrosset

Author: Yes, this should be "build tool"

* Entry points are loaded on every page load.

> * Dynamic imports are only loaded on demand, for example when the user interacts with the webpage or with the extension's UI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Dynamic imports are only loaded on demand, such as when the user interacts with the webpage or with the extension's UI:
```
fewer syllables, more transparent imo

  ```javascript
  // When the user clicks on the page.
  document.addEventListener("click", async () => {
    // Dynamically load the code that's needed to handle the click event.
    const module = await import("chunk.js");
    // Do something with the newly loaded module code.
  });
  ```

> <!-- ====================================================================== -->

Reviewer: some red highlighting - bug in gh diff display?  or bad tagging in .md?

Author: I think GH diff is to blame here, the rendered preview seems correct.

Reviewer: 2 leading spaces are used for a tab in this code block not 3 or 4.  might affect git diff coloring 

inside the code block, uses 3 leading spaces.  might consider a contradiction / inconsistency

@captainbrosset

## Only load your content script in required pages and frames

Your extension might not need to run on every webpage that the user visits. To reduce the amount of code that runs when webpages load, configure your extension to load content scripts only on the pages and frames where they are needed.

> To configure the pages and frames where your content scripts are loaded, define URL patterns in your extension manifest file by using the `matches` property in the `content_scripts` section. To learn more, see [Inject scripts](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/content-scripts#functionality) in the Chrome Extensions documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the pages and frames where your content scripts are loaded, define URL patterns in your extension manifest file by using the `matches` property in the `content_scripts` section. To learn more, see [Inject scripts](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/content-scripts#functionality) in the Chrome Extensions documentation.
```
link text "Inject scripts" appears to contradict anchor "functionality".  try: see [heading] in _article title_.

You can also use the `chrome.scripting` extensions API to programmatically inject your content script into the webpage. This API allows you to inject your content script based on the user's actions, the webpage content, or the extension logic. To learn more, see [chrome.scripting](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/scripting) in the Chrome Extensions documentation.

Use the following best practices when configuring where your content scripts are loaded:

* Use the most specific URL patterns possible for the `matches` and `exclude_matches` properties in your extension manifest file. For example, if your content script only needs to run on webpages of the example.com domain, use `https://example.com/*` instead of "`*://*/*`.

> * To control whether your content script only runs in the top-level frame, or also in nested frames of the webpage that matches a URL pattern, use the `all_frames` property in your extension manifest file. By default, this property is set to false, which means that your content script will only run in the top-level frame. If your content script needs to access or modify the DOM in nested frames, set this property to true. Note that setting `all_frames` to true increases the amount of code that runs on a webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To control whether your content script only runs in the top-level frame, or also in nested frames of the webpage that matches a URL pattern, use the `all_frames` property in your extension manifest file. By default, this property is set to `false`, which means that your content script will only run in the top-level frame. If your content script needs to access or modify the DOM in nested frames, set this property to true. Note that setting `all_frames` to true increases the amount of code that runs on a webpage.
```
check if `false` is technically correct key word, if so, backticks adds clarity.  might be instead 0, eg
@captainbrosset

Reviewer: added backticks

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Load content scripts only when needed

> To reduce the amount of code that is loaded and that runs on each webpage, and to save memory and CPU resources, only load your content scripts as needed, instead of on every page load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reduce the amount of code that is loaded and that runs on each webpage, and to save memory and CPU resources, only load your content scripts when needed, instead of on every page load.
```
consider alt wording, less colloq perhaps.  how established is "as needed"?

#### Configure when to load content scripts in your extension manifest file

To control when your extension's content script should be loaded, use the `run_at` property in your extension's manifest file.

By default, this property is set to the `document_idle` value, which means that the content script will be loaded, and run, after the page has finished loading and the DOM is ready. This is the recommended value for most content scripts. The `document_idle` value ensures that the content script will not interfere with the page loading process.

To load and run your content script before the page is fully loaded, use the `document_start` or `document_end` values. These values are useful in cases such as modifying the webpage layout or styling, but they can also cause performance issues or compatibility problems with other scripts on the page.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Programmatically load content scripts at runtime

To programmatically load your content scripts at runtime, only when needed, use the `chrome.scripting` API . The `chrome.scripting` API provides more control over when and where your content script is loaded.

> For example, you can use the `chrome.scripting` API to load your content script only after the user has interacted with the webpage or extension UI, such as when clicking on an extension button, or a part of the webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can use the `chrome.scripting` API to load your content script only after the user has interacted with the webpage or extension UI, such as when clicking an extension button, or a part of the webpage.
```
according to style guide, not "click on" ... actually style guide lacks any direct guidance, and says to write in an abstract way (🧂) that applies to mouse and keyboard and doesn't differentiate them (vs. other co. style guides).  
style guide does have comparable example "right-click the foo".

> If you use the `chrome.scripting` API when the user interacts with the webpage, make sure to carefully consider if you need to repeatedly load your content script every time the interaction happens. Loading content scripts too frequently can cause user experience issues or errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the `chrome.scripting` API when the user interacts with the webpage, make sure to carefully consider whether you need to repeatedly load your content script every time the interaction happens. Loading content scripts too frequently can cause user experience issues or errors.
```
* consider whether - more well-formed construction

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Avoid blocking calls or long running synchronous tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Avoid blocking calls or long-running synchronous tasks
```
check globally.  can corrob in corp style guide

Blocking calls and long-running synchronous tasks can delay the webpage load or make other aspects of a webpage slower, as well as negatively impact the UI responsiveness.

> Blocking calls are JavaScript operations that prevent running other code until they complete. For example, using the `XMLHttpRequest`, `localStorage`, or `chrome.storage.sync` APIs, which are synchronous, prevents the webpage from running other code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blocking calls are JavaScript operations that prevent running other code until they complete. For example, using the `XMLHttpRequest`, `localStorage`, or `chrome.storage.sync` APIs (which are synchronous) prevents the webpage from running other code.
```
too many commas, so parens can help parse - focus on key parts of sentence

> Long running synchronous tasks are those that take a long time to complete, preventing the browser from running other webpage code while they are running. This can include complex calculations, loops, or string manipulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Long-running synchronous tasks_ are those that take a long time to complete, preventing the browser from running other webpage code while they are running. This can include complex calculations, loops, or string manipulations.
```

> Use asynchronous or non-blocking code, such as the Fetch API, JavaScript Promises, or Web Workers where possible. Asynchronous or non-blocking code allow the execution of other code while waiting for the completion of a task, without blocking browser process that runs the webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use asynchronous or non-blocking code, such as the Fetch API, JavaScript Promises, or Web Workers where possible. Asynchronous or non-blocking code allows the execution of other code while waiting for the completion of a task, without blocking the browser process that runs the webpage.
```
errors fix

Note that, although using Web Workers to move your complex code logic to another thread is a good practice, it might still slow down devices that have a low CPU core count or that are already busy.

Below is an example using the Fetch API. While the data is being fetched, the browser is not blocked and can run other code:

```javascript
// Asynchronously load data from a JSON file.
fetch("data.json")
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => {
    // Do something with the data.
  });
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Asynchronously store data

> To store data in your extension, use the `chrome.storage.local` API instead of the `localStorage` API, which is a synchronous API. The `chrome.storage.local` API is asynchronous  and can store and retrieve data more efficiently without affecting the performance of the webpage where your extension is running. For example, you can use the `chrome.storage.local.get` method to retrieve a previously stored value, and then use the result in a callback function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To store data in your extension, use the `chrome.storage.local` API instead of the `localStorage` API, which is a synchronous API. The `chrome.storage.local` API is asynchronous and can store and retrieve data more efficiently, without affecting the performance of the webpage where your extension is running. For example, you can use the `chrome.storage.local.get` method to retrieve a previously stored value, and then use the result in a callback function:
```

```javascript
chrome.storage.local.get("key", result => {
  // Do something with the result.
});
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Asynchronously send messages

> To communicate from your content script to your extension's background page, or to other content scripts, use the `chrome.runtime.sendMessage` or `chrome.tabs.sendMessage` methods. These methods are asynchronous and non-blocking and allow you to send and receive messages between the different parts of your extension. You can use promises or callbacks to handle the response of the messages. For example, you can use the `chrome.runtime.sendMessage` method to send a message to the background page and use the `Promise` object it returns to process the response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To communicate from your content script to your extension's background page, or to other content scripts, use the `chrome.runtime.sendMessage` or `chrome.tabs.sendMessage` methods. These methods are asynchronous and non-blocking, and allow you to send and receive messages between the different parts of your extension. You can use promises or callbacks to handle the response of the messages. For example, you can use the `chrome.runtime.sendMessage` method to send a message to the background page, and then use the returned `Promise` object to process the response:
```

```javascript
chrome.runtime.sendMessage({type: 'request', data: 'some data'})
  .then(response => {
    // Do something with the response.
  });
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Run intensive tasks off the main thread

Use Web Workers to run intensive tasks in your content script without blocking the thread that the browser uses to render the webpage. By using Web Workers, the code that runs the intensive tasks runs in a separate thread. Web Workers can improve the performance and responsiveness of your content script and of the webpages it runs on.

> Note that creating a Web Worker creates a new thread, which uses new resources on the devices. Using too many resources on low end devices might lead to performance issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that creating a Web Worker creates a new thread, which uses new resources on the devices. Using too many resources on low-end devices might lead to performance issues.
```

To communicate between your content script and Web Worker, use the `postMessage` and `onmessage` APIs. For example, to create a new Web Worker and send a message to it, use the following code:

```javascript
// Create a new Web Worker.
cons worker = new Worker('worker.js');

// Send a message to the Web Worker.
worker.postMessage({type: 'task', data: 'some data'});
```

To receive messages in your Web Worker, and to send messages back:

```javascript
// Listen to messages that are sent to the Web Worker.
onmessage = event => {
  const type = event.data.type;
  const data = event.data.data;

  // Do something with the type and data
  // ...

  // Send a message back.
  postMessage({type: 'result', data: 'some result'});
};
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

* [Introduction to the Performance tool](../../devtools-guide-chromium/evaluate-performance/index.md)

> * [Manifest - content scripts](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/manifest/content-scripts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Chrome Extension docs:
* [Manifest - content scripts](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/manifest/content-scripts)
```
mini heading to separate external links vs this repo articles

* [chrome.scripting](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/scripting)
* [chrome.storage](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/storage)

> * [Using Web Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

MDN:
* [Using Web Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers)
```

1. In DevTools, on the **Activity Bar**, select the **Performance** (![Performance tool icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/performance-tool-icon.png)) tab.  If that tab isn't visible, select **More tools** (![More tools icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/more-tools-icon.png)) > **Performance**.

1. To start recording a performance profile, click the **Record** (![Record icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/record-icon.png)) button.

1. Reload the page to capture the profiling data that corresponds to the page load time and then, once the page has finished loading, click the **Stop** (![Stop icon](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/stop-icon.png)) button to end the recording. DevTools displays the recorded performance profile:

   ![The recorded performance profile displayed in the DevTools Performance tool](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/profile.png)

1. To search for the performance events that are caused by your content script, press **Ctrl+F** on Windows/Linux or **Command+F** on macOS.  The **Find** text box appears at the bottom of the **Performance** tool.

> 1. Type **Evaluate script** and then press **Enter** until the **Performance** tool highlights the performance events that are caused by your content script.  You will know that you have found the right performance event when the **Script** label in the **Summary** panel shows the name of your content script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Type **Evaluate script** and then press **Enter** until the **Performance** tool highlights the performance events that are caused by your content script.  You will know that you have found the right performance event when the **Script** label in the **Summary** panel shows the name of your content script:
```

1. To open the Edge tracing tool, open a new tab or window, and go to `edge://tracing`. The tracing UI opens.

1. To start a new trace, in the top left corner of the tool, click the **Record** button. The **Record a new trace** dialog opens.

1. Select the **Manually select settings** option button. The list of categories appears.

1. To capture detailed information about your extension's content script compilation and execution, select all of the following categories:

   * **extensions**
   * **v8**
   * **devtools**
   * **devtools.timeline**

1. Click the **Record** button.  The dialog closes, and the Edge tracing tool starts recording the trace.

1. Open a new tab and load a webpage that your extension affects. The tracing tool collects data about the performance impact of your extension on the webpage.

1. Open the tab where the Edge tracing tool is running, and then click the **Stop** button. The new trace information appears in the tool.

> Traces that are recorded by the Edge tracing tool provide a lot of information about the browser, as well as your extension.

Reviewer: add heading here
```suggestion

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Filter the results

Traces that are recorded by the Edge tracing tool provide a lot of information about the browser, as well as your extension.
```

Reviewer: but the little section at end might need heading or moving it
"To continue analyzing the performance ..."

To filter the information to show only what's relevant to the webpage that your extension impacted:

1. In the `edge://tracing` page, press **Shift+Esc** to open the **Browser Task Manager** dialog.

1. In the **Browser Task Manager** dialog, search for the tab that corresponds to the webpage that your extension affected, and note the number in the **Process ID** column. Close the dialog.

1. In the toolbar of the Edge tracing tool, click **Processes**, and then select the checkbox that corresponds to the process ID you noted. Clear all other checkboxes.

1. In the upper right corner of the Edge tracing tool, click the search field, type **ScriptInjection::InjectJS**, and then press **Enter** repeatedly until an event that corresponds to your extension is highlighted in the bottom panel.

   The bottom panel displays the start time and total duration of the event:

   ![The Edge tracing tool showing a script injection event](./minimize-page-load-time-impact-images/tracing-event-selected.png)

> To continue analyzing the performance impact of your extension's content script on the webpage, look for the following key events inside the **ScriptInjection::InjectJS** event:

Reviewer: does this set of lines apply to both tools? Microsoft Edge DevTools & Edge tracing tool

affects h4 vs h6

current headings structure implies that this implicit section applies only to Edge tracing tool, not to DevTools, but it seems like it could apply to DevTools as well thus this would be h4 not h6

rendered: just above the heading:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/developer-guide/minimize-page-load-time-impact?branch=pr-en-us-3272#only-add-content-script-code-thats-needed-for-the-functionality-of-your-extension

@andrejo-msft @captainbrosset

Reviewer: tracing tool only therefore h6 not h4

Author: My understanding is that it only applies to the Edge tracing tool.

> To continue analyzing the performance impact of your extension's content script on the webpage, look for the following key events inside the **ScriptInjection::InjectJS** event:

Reviewer: maybe h4 or h6 depending on which tool it applies to
```suggestion

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Look for key events

To continue analyzing the performance impact of your extension's content script on the webpage, look for the following key events inside the **ScriptInjection::InjectJS** event:
```
